---
description: EIP-1559 base fees will impact the xDai ecosystem.
---

# EIP-1559

## What is EIP-1559

EIP 1559 introduces a `Base Fee` for all blockchain transactions. This is a minimum fee charged for each transaction, and it is adjusted depending on network congestion \(gas usage per block\). When gas usage is high, the fee increases, and when it is low, the fee decreases. 

Once collected, base fees are burned by the protocol rather than paid directly to the miners \(or validators in the case of xDai\). In addition to the base fee, a `priority fee` can be added to a transaction as a tip to incentivize miners \(validators\) to include it in a block.

## How 1559 will impact xDai

When EIP-1559 is implemented, xDai base fees will be burned within the protocol. This will result in a discrepancy between the xDai balance on the network and the DAI balance from Ethereum locked in the xDai bridge. To fix this imbalance, the corresponding amount of DAI on the mainnet will need to be used as well.

The plan is to use the corresponding amount of DAI to purchase and burn STAKE on Ethereum, thus decreasing the STAKE total supply and providing a deflationary mechanism for the token. The exact mechanisms for these buy-and-burn processes are still being finalized.

{% hint style="info" %}
Tx fees in May 2021 were more than 530K xDai. With EIP-1559 in place, tx fees will ultimately be used to buyback-and-burn STAKE.  
Source: [https://duneanalytics.com/maxaleks/xDai-Usage](https://duneanalytics.com/maxaleks/xDai-Usage)
{% endhint %}

Block size will also be increased - to ~30M with this upgrade \(increase will depend on test implementation results\). This will increase per-block capacity for transactions and balance the `base fee` implementation.

## How EIP-1559 will impact xDai validators 

STAKE rewards for validators will not be influenced by this transition, however transaction fee rewards \(in xDai\) will be impacted, as the base fee will be burned by the protocol. Validators will still receive xDai for any priority fees \(tips\) set by users to prioritize tx inclusion. ‌

Currently, xDai validators receive all xDai transaction fees in addition to STAKE rewards. STAKE was designed as the primary incentive for validators \(see the [whitepaper for more info](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ifaMGDFUZfAJyjXA-kTwuwhmTv1-xHwIajzEGjFt-7c/edit#)\), and these rewards will remain the same for validators and delegators within a pool. The objective of the STAKE buyback-and-burn mechanism is to reduce the supply of STAKE, leading to increased value for validators, delegators, and all xDai STAKE users.

{% hint style="info" %}
Validators running OpenEthereum will also need to [transition their nodes to Nethermind](../../for-validators/new-validator-process-flow/nethermind-node-setup.md) as a part of this upgrade.
{% endhint %}

## When EIP-1559

The xDai team is currently working closely with the [Nethermind](https://nethermind.io/) client team to support EIP-1559 on xDai. Plans are to integrate 1559 on xDai prior to the Ethereum mainnet HF, which is scheduled for [late July 2021](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Y3yyTqeqRO1O2UFVkNkHK_V5oRulZd6y-JJbSnKYrb4/edit#gid=0).  

During this integration we also plan to update the network for exclusive Nethermind support \(OpenEthereum is currently in the [deprecation process while transitioning to Erigon](https://medium.com/openethereum/gnosis-joins-erigon-formerly-turbo-geth-to-release-next-gen-ethereum-client-c6708dd06dd)\). **This means all validators and other node runners will need to** [**migrate to Nethermind nodes**](../../for-validators/new-validator-process-flow/nethermind-node-setup.md)**.** Erigon compatibility with xDai and POSDAO is not guaranteed at launch; we will revisit client implementations as needed to best support the network.

‌The upgrade will **start with the Kovan testnet** to explore and test various usage scenarios. We expect the Kovan implementation in June 2021 with xDai following shortly thereafter, based on client and network readiness. 

The xDai implementation will serve as an important gauge for its efficacy and usage patterns. xDai is a compatible EVM network with real value, providing an excellent launchpad for EIP1559 before it goes live on the Ethereum mainnet.

{% hint style="info" %}
For more info about EIP-1559 on Ethereum and how it works, see the list of [EIP-1559 resource](https://hackmd.io/@timbeiko/1559-resources)s compiled by Tim Beiko.
{% endhint %}

